
## General

- [ ] Switch to TDD development methodology. Cover all code by unit-tests BEFORE adding any new functionality
- [ ] Implement independent program modules:
  - [ ] Data: managing text and table documents, encoding, serialization, converters
  - [ ] Activities: program models, programming language parsers, compilers and interpreters
  - [ ] Text: universal text processing operations
  - [ ] Files: managing different file formats (images, music, videos)
  - [ ] OS: OS characteristics info and adjustments, native functions API
  - [ ] Net: API for TCP, HTTP, DHCP, ... servers and clients
  - [ ] Forms: universal cross-platform GUI units (forms) for convinient work; allows to create new or adjust existing forms

- [ ] Implement cross-platform GUIs:
  - [ ] AppInstaller: GUI for installing the main app, adjusting parameters and managing included packages
  - [ ] ActivityDesigner: app for creating and managing Activities; allows to build Activities relations and order
  - [ ] FileExplorer: GUI replacing system explorer with very adjustable graphical elements, fonts and icons

## Assemblies

- [ ] Finished

- [ ] Develop a CLI for managing app assembling actions
- [ ] Implement assembly logic. It must support:
  - [ ] specific platform building
  - [ ] picking modules and submodules that are included in the final build
  - [ ] choosing compiling mode (single binary, separate dynamic libraries)
  - [ ] assembling every dynamic library or program independently (\* programs: all GUIs and other programs with entry point)
  - [ ] self rebuilding (compiling source code of the Assemblies project, closing current running instance and starting new compiled version)
- [ ] Develop a separate CLI for interacting with app functionality
- [ ] Develop a special tag system that specifies global application assembling parameters
  - [ ] Tag `//# Platform-dependent: { Windows, Linux, MacOS } ` (`Unix = Linux + MacOS`)
  - [ ] Tag `//# Platform-independent`
  - [ ] Tag `//# Requires <UpperLevel namespace>` (`//# Requires UpperLevel.OS`, `//# Requires UpperLevel.Data.Converters`). Determines how to link dependencies in application building process
  - [ ] Tag `//# `


## Functionality

### Activities

- [x] Define Activity models. Activity represents a program with or without parameters or output result
- [ ] Define Activity flow models. Activity flow is a structure consisting of Activity nodes, bound with relations
- [ ] Create set of default activities. The set is determined only on app build, because it requires references to other assemblies. Default activity is a function of one of the assemblies wrapped in an Activity
- [ ] Add international language support for all built-in functions. Language is based on LINQ, SQL, procedural style~
- [ ] ~Add "built-in functions" support with human readable titles and descriptions

Code translators:

- [ ] C++
- [ ] C#
- [ ] PowerShell
- [ ] Python
- [ ] Batch
- [ ] Bash
- [ ] VBS
- [ ] Visual Basic .NET

### Data

- [ ] Compressors
  - [ ] Implement several modern compression algorithms with various parameters 
- [ ] Converters

  - [ ] Define international and language specific Morse code models
  - [ ] Extend basic encoding functionality by adding Morse code conversions

  - [ ] Serializers
    - [ ] Define serialization format models
      - [ ] JSON
      - [ ] XML
      - [ ] CSV
      - [ ] YAML
      - [ ] Markdown table
    - [ ] Implement conversion logic between all formats

  - [ ] Files
    - [ ] Mark as "Requires UpperLevel.Files"
    - [ ] Image conversion logic
    - [ ] Text document conversion logic
    - [ ] Audio conversion logic

- [ ] Encryption
  - [ ] Define an encrypting API or wrap existing functionality in it
    - [ ] Implement modern end effective symmetrical algorithm (AES) or wrap existing functionality
    - [ ] Implement modern end effective asymmetrical algorithm (RSA) or wrap existing functionality

### Files

- [ ] Create File and Directory models. Do not create specific file format models, because its too complex, instead define universal logic for managing metadata properties and common file structure elements. For example, all bitmap images has pixels and compression mechanisms
- [ ] 

### Forms

- [ ] Create crossplatform forms that can be injected in other forms as structural element

  - [ ] **Key-value object**. Dictionary that is filled by user. Parameters: IsUniqueKeys
  
  - [ ] **Text table**. Table with no text format. Cell data is treated as string. Parameters: CanSortColumnX, CanChangeColumnOrder, AvailableOperations, AlternateRowsColors, AlternateColumnColors, DataSource (file with data in one of valid formats, function result, activity result, program result)

  - [ ] **Validation table**. Supports column typification and validation. Every column element has property `delegate bool Validator<T>(T value)`

  - [ ] **Formatted table**. Extended text table that supports fonts, colors, cell combining and splitting

  - [ ] **Formatted validation table**. Combines functionality of all tables

  - [ ] **Text tree**. Table that supports nested table rows. Parameters: AllowManyColumns, MaxDepth, UnwrapDefaultLevel

  - [ ] **Validation tree**

  - [ ] **Formatted tree**

  - [ ] **Formatted validation tree**

  - [ ] **Authorization view**. Parameters: Login, Password, LoginRegex, PasswordRegex, IncorrectLoginFormatMessage, IncorrectPasswordFormatMessage, RegisteredLogins, RegisteredPasswordHashes

  - [ ] **Registration view**. Parameters: RepeatLoginTimes=1, RepeatPasswordTimes=2, LoginRegex, PasswordRegex, IncorrectLoginFormatMessage, IncorrectPasswordFormatMessage

  - [ ] **Validation text box**. Text box with customizable validator

  - [ ] **Validation date-time picker**. Allows to pick a date-time or a date-time span. Parameters: DateFormat={DateTime, DateOnly, TimeOnly}, SpanMode=false

  - [ ] **Validated document**. Allows to determine a document with specified properties, lists and tables. Every single property supports custom validation. By default ValidationDocument has properties Data, Number, IsConducted. Each property has parameters: Name (unique), Value, IsVisible, Order, Validator (optional). Implement default validators: IntegerNumberV

  - [ ] **CodeEditor**. Code parser. Only parses the code with specific syntax, no analyzer (at least simple)?. It should allow to use many cursors. Parameters: Syntax={Text, RegExp, C\#, C++, JavaScript, Python, Markdown, RTF, ...}, ColorScheme={\<one of defaults\>, customObject}

  - [ ] **SeriEditor**. Serialization format parser. Allows to change non-table data in UI. Supported formats: JSON, XML, YAML (all in redered representation)

  - [ ] **ImageEditor**. Simple (raster only?) image editor

  - [ ] **Font picker**. Allows to pick a font family, font size and font style. Font families should dynamically load from file system to allow custom fonts

  - [ ] **Color picker**

  - [ ] **Func viewer**. Displays function chart. Values for X component can be calculated by preset or by custom function `X(?)`. `f(x) = y(x(?))`

  - [ ] **MathEvaluator**. Allows to enter complex mathematical expressions (logs, integrals, etc.) by clicking buttons OR entering parsable expression (may be something like LaTeX syntax)

  - [ ] For all of these views create "settings button" that allows to change parameters of the view in runtime. Every of those views which supports this feature has to have property "`ShowSettingsButton`"

### Net

- [ ] Communication

### OS

- [ ] Keyboard and mouse

- [ ] Screen

- [ ] OS info

### Text

- [ ] `CharExtensions.cs`
- [ ] `StringExtensions.cs`
- [ ] `SourceCodeExtensions.cs`
    - [ ] Change notation function. Allows to change variable name notation (`var_one_1`, `VarOne1`, `VAR_ONE_1`, `var one 1`)
    - [ ] Notation function has to provide adding prefixes and postfixes (`_var_one_1`)
- [ ] `Chars.cs` Create set of static methods that return special symbols that cannot be typed using keyboard

## GUI

### AppInstaller

- [ ] Finished

### ActivityDesigner

- [ ] Finished

### ComfortExplorer

- [ ] Create Comfort explorer with highly adjustable properties. Functionality:

  - [ ] **View modes**: Vertical file list, table with movable columns, tree view
  
  - [ ] **Scale adjustment**: allow to change scale by scrolling wheel
  
  - [ ] **Column management**: Columns can be added, removed or **created**. Custom columns should represent a function that takes a file and returns one of its charachteristics
  
  - [ ] Explorer must support **LINQ-like language** (INHERIT FROM Activity language. See Activity tasks) for CRUD operations on files. Create special view for queries
  
  - [ ] Explorer must support **metadata viewer** that shows metadata of a single file or a set of files with the same type
    - [ ] Add edit mode that allows to change metadata of the file
  
  - [ ] Add **context menu** with these items:
    - [ ] Show metadata
    - [ ] Pack
    - [ ] Convert... (change file format by converting data and metadata)
    - [ ] Merge custom context menu with system context menu
    - [ ] Open with app (similar to OS function)
    - [ ] Open as format... Allows to open file as it would be of another format
  
  - [ ] Status panel:
    - [ ] size of selected files and all files in the current location
    - [ ] amount of elements in the present location
  
  - [ ] Preview panel: allows to preview file contents
    - [ ] Edit mode: allows to edit the contents using one of built-in viewers
  
  - [ ] Add different themes for the explorer

#Идеи_проектов #Идеи_проектов/Upper_Level
